---
layout: post
title: "AI-900 Azure AI Fundamentals - 5 Key Takeaways"
date: 2026-01-20
categories: [azure, AI]
---

On the journey to passing AI-900, I was blessed by many profound moments. In this short article I shall share my 5 biggest takeaways with you.

## What is AI-900?

The Microsoft Azure AI Fundamentals (AI-900) exam, is an entry level AI exam that assesses the following:

- Artificial Intelligence workloads and considerations
- Fundamental principles of machine learning on Azure
- Features of computer vision workloads on Azure
- Features of Natural Language Processing (NLP) workloads on Azure
- Features of generative AI workloads on Azure

For the non-technical, lay-person, Azure is Microsoft's cloud offering and the above can be summarised as how to use AI across text, images, agents and other useful business purposes using Microsoft's AI offering within Azure.

Here are my top 5 key takeaways:

---

## Key Takeaways

### 1. **M365 Co-Pilot is Extendable**

I had always presumed that the M365 co-pilot, built into Windows, was just Microsoft's equivalent of ChatGPT, but this is completely untrue. The M365 Co-pilot is extendable and customisable and what this means in real terms is it has to the potential to enable any employee to ask M365 Co-Pilot to perform and assist with business tasks.

This means that any system with a REST API, which is most systems, can be integrated into Co-pilot. Imagine asking Co-pilot to show you the details of an insurance policy or to log a ticket with IT for you. These tasks are automatable but with the caveat that due to the security behind Co-pilot, extra design considerations will need to be taken into consideration.

### 2. **Any person can develop in AI. It doesn't take a team of Data Scientists anymore**

I had always thought that as I do not have a degree in Data Science, I would become a Software Engineering relic one day, but the reality is this, Microsoft Azure's AI offerings are designed to enable any person to develop AI solutions, without a Data Science degree or vast amounts of AI knowledge. This is thanks, in-part, to pre-trained models developed by Microsoft and made available in Azure AI Foundry.

Armed with this knowledge, I have been developing my own AI agent to answer questions and to automate processes. However, as with my first takeaway, there is another caveat - to automate processes, it's still advisable to employ software engineers to integrate your agent with other technologies. To automate processes, I need to build out these processes in Azure Logic Apps or Azure Functions, this cannot easily be done using Azure AI Foundry.

### 3. **AI hallucinations do not have to be a constraint**

While attending the previous edition of the Lloyd's Lab Accelerator proposals, a question was raised around hallucinations of AI (where generative AI makes things up because it doesn't know) being a problem with the proposing companies solution. The answer that came back was that the presenters weren't sure if it was a problem and that testing would reveal problems. I was impressed by that insurance software solution, but due to that one question answer, that business was not shortlisted to go into the ten-week program. 

The reality and the answer that should have come back is that as long as the solution is “grounded” to the correct data and as long as Retrieval-Augmented Generation is properly established, hallucinations in AI are not generally an issue. Azure Foundry offers a "Top P" setting allowing you to tell your chatbot how creative it can be. You can also use system messages to tell your chatbot to say x, if it doesn’t have any answer to the question.

### 4. **AI really is a huge threat to jobs**

McKinsey CEO Bob Sternfels recently confirmed that McKinsey has a total "workforce" of 60,000, of which 25,000 are AI agents. I will go out on a limb and say that from everything I have seen during my studies, I have no doubt that AI will take many jobs.

Agentic AI is huge right now and it's not just people talking to agents, it's agents talking to other agents to work-together to achieve tasks together. It is also undeniable that AI agents can work 24/7 with no need for breaks but there is a caveat that AI is only as good as the data and the developer that trained it, so, while AI will take many jobs, it will take a while to create the perfect AI solutions. One last consideration is at what point do governments step in to intervene as taxation from jobs is a major source of government income - this is an unknown.

### 5. **Responsible AI is important to Microsoft and to Lloyd's of London**

As with all technology breakthroughs, AI has to be implemented in a responsible manner. This is why Microsoft has developed a "Responsible AI Framework". It is built upon six core principles: fairness, reliability and safety, privacy and security, inclusiveness, transparency, and accountability.

Microsoft’s Responsible AI Framework and Lloyd’s Principles for Doing Business share a common DNA in outcomes-based governance to ensure ethical results. By aligning Microsoft’s technical standards (like fairness and reliability) with Lloyd’s market expectations (such as customer outcomes and operational resilience), insurers can create a unified framework where AI ethics directly support regulatory compliance. Ultimately though... both models demand that senior leadership takes personal accountability for ensuring technology is safe, inclusive, and transparently managed.

--- 

## Final Thoughts

So, there you have it! My top 5 key takeaways from studying and passing the AI-900 Azure AI Fundamentals exam. I hope you took something away from this post, because I have certainly enjoyed writing it. AI brings exciting times to the insurance sector, but it also brings new challenges. 

If you enjoyed this post, please check-out some of my other articles. I am also hoping to pass AZ-204, Microsoft Azure's Associate Developer exam in the next 3 months and thus have already made some remarkable discoveries about how to implement Azure to reduce operating costs, improve security and deliver phenomenal business transformation; I have no doubt that such an article, if produced, will be a good read...

Until next time. Ciao.